\input texinfo 
@setfilename atmuserstories.info
@settitle ATM User Stories
@paragraphindent 1
@tex
\global\bindingoffset=0.00in
\global\normaloffset =0.00in
@end tex
@dircategory Atm User Stories
@direntry
* ATM : (atm).                 ATM
@end direntry
@set xref-automatic-section-title
@smallbook
@set EDITION 1.0
@set VERSION 2.0.x
@set UPDATED 2007-06-03
@set ISBN X-XXXXXX-XX-X
@titlepage
@sp 
@title ATM User Stories
@sp 4
@author by Bill Six
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
This manual documents the User Stories for the ATM example
@sp
Copyright @copyright{} 2007 Bill Six
@sp 1
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the @acronym{GNU} Free Documentation License,
Version 1.2, or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation.
@end titlepage
@page
@contents
@headings off
@headings on



@node Business Domain
@chapter Business Domain
@c %MENU% Business Domain

@itemize @bullet
@item
Account - An account is the base unit in which a person can transfer funds.
@item
Fund Transfer - Any action which involves increasing or decreasing the current balance of an account.
@end itemize





@node Roles
@chapter Roles
@c %MENU% Roles


@itemize @bullet
@item
Bill - a person who has an account at our ATM.

@itemize @minus
@item
Username - wsix
@item
Password - password
@item
Initial balance = $100
@end itemize

@end itemize



@node User Stories
@chapter User Stories
@c %MENU% User Stories

@itemize @bullet

@item
Bill provides correct username and password before he can access any of the ATM's services
@itemize @minus
@item
Bill does not provide the correct username and password, and is unable to access any services
@item
Bill does provide the correct username and password, and is able to access all services
@end itemize

@item
Bill checks his current balance
@itemize @minus
@item
Bill's see's that he has $100.  
@end itemize

@item
Bill withdraws money from his account
@itemize @minus
@item
Bill's withdraws $50, and his current balance is now $50.  
@end itemize

@item
Bill deposits money to his account
@itemize @minus
@item
Bill's deposits $50, and his current balance is now $150.  
@end itemize

@item
Bill withdraws $50, deposits $25, is able to see a history of all of his fund transfers.
@itemize @minus
@item
Bill is able to see all of the fund transfers.
@end itemize






@end itemize






@c Local Variables:
@c ispell-local-pdict: "ispell-dict"
@c End:
@bye

